In the previous year to follow me we have studied how a program utilizes the mean memory by rewriting
the memory in all sections like a strike on the heap and we have also understood what is static memory
allocation and what is dynamic memory allocation.
Now let us move to the topic that is introduction of the data structures in this video.
I will be giving introduction to various data structures.
I have categorized them here as physical data structures and logical structures.
So first I'll explain what physical data structures.
Just the introduction then introduction to various Logical Data Structures.
Now let us look at physical structures.
These are the two physical structures Eddie and linguist.
We can have more physical structure by taking the combination of these.
And linking link it can have some variations in them.
Basically these are two.
The first thing why I'm calling the mass physical.
The reason is these data structure besides or defines how the memories organize hold the memories.
I look at it.
So let us look at them one by one.
This is an Audi.
This is directly supported by programming languages like it is there and see language in C++ and even
in Java.
This is directly supported.
This is a collection of contiguous memory locations all these locations are side by side.
If I have an idea for seven integers then all these places for seven integers are together.
They are at one place.
This study will have fixed sites once it is created of some size then that size cannot be increase or
decrease.
So it is a fixed size so the size of an array is static.
There this array can be created and it can be created either inside stock or it can be created inside
a heap.
We can have a pointer pointing to the study so it can be created either inside stock or inside a heap
anyway it can be created when to use the syntax structure.
When you are sure what is the maximum number of elements that you are going to store if you know the
limit of the list then you can go for a second structure linked list.
This is a complete dynamic data structure and it is a collection of n with each node contains the data
and the link to next node.
The limit of this list can grow and reduce dynamically it having variable length.
So I support your requirement.
You can go on adding more and more norms and add more elements.
You can do is the size.
This link was always created in a heap.
Collection of moves are created always in a heap like how to be a pointer that is pointing there.
So the head pointer may be inside this track.
So link is always created in heap.
We go with this one if you know the limit of list of the size of the list.
If it is fixed and we go with this.
If the size of the list is not known.
So these two are physical because they define how the memory should be organized for storing the elements
or for storing the data.
So these are more related to memory.
So just introduce these two decades structures to you as this is a separate topic in our subject.
Now let us move on to the next type of diagnostic shows that is logical structures.
Now let us look at logical structures see here are the list of logical data structures that are stocked
QS trees graphs and hash table and these are physical structure.
Already we have seen no let us look at the differences between them.
Physical data structures are actually meant for storing the data they will hold the data they will actually
store the data in the memory.
Then when you have the list of values you may be performing operations like inserting more values or
deleting existing values or searching for the values and many more operations.
Now the question is how you want to utilize those values how you will be performing insertion and deletion.
What is the discipline that you are going to follow that a discipline is defined by these data structures.
That is stock use trees and graphs and hash table.
These are linear structures and these are non-linear and this may be near or tabular data structure
hash table stable so it is a tabular data structure stack.
This works on discipline that is lethal.
Last in first chunk
Q looks on the discipline that is feasible.
This is a non-linear structure.
This will be organized like a hierarchy and this is a collection of nodes and the links between the
norms.
So these are data structures are actually used in applications.
These are data structures are actually used in algorithms and for implementing these data structures.
We either use une or linguist so this is the important point that we have to learn in this topic that
is these logical data structures are implemented using any of these physical data structure either are
they are limitless or the combination of money and interest.
So that's all I have given the introduction of various types of data structures.
I have categorized them.
This was just the introduction to give you a witness for the conclusion of this topic as I wanted it
to differentiate the type of data structure that is physical data structures and linked lists and these
are logical and these logical data structures are implemented using physical data structures either
using other linguists so told our course we will learn about each data structures and we will implement
them using Ardi as well as will implement them using linguists.
So we have to learn this here I have given just names of the data structures some of the data structure.
If you pick up each topic that a lot of sub topics and them like there are different type of cues there
are different types of trees and there are different type of graphs.
So each and everything we learn all those things in detail.
So of course we will be first learning in detail about this ideas and linguistic structures we will
implement then we will write the programs for these then we'll start learning about these dark architecture.
Every data structure we would implement using update as well as linked list so in the next video I'll
explain what is ADHD and what are the various type of lists.